{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helvetica;}
{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f22\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f23\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}
{\f26\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f27\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f29\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f31\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f32\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{\s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 footnote text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\*\cs18 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\s19\widctlpar
\tx2835\adjustright \f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 Credits;}{\s20\fi-1814\li1933\sb60\sl-240\slmult1\nowidctlpar\tx1920\adjustright \f5\fs20 \snext20 Tp;}{\s21\fi-2268\li2268\keepn\widctlpar\tx-2410\tx2268\outlinelevel0\adjustright 
\f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon1 \snext21 Menus;}{\s22\fi-1701\li1701\widctlpar\tx1701\adjustright \f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 Options;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid134807557\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid66614896}{\list\listtemplateid134807553\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid153448818}{\list\listtemplateid134807557\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid162671717}{\list\listtemplateid134807553\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1533804703}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid66614896\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid162671717\listoverridecount0\ls2}
{\listoverride\listid1533804703\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid153448818\listoverridecount0\ls4}}{\info{\title Magnetic}{\author David Kinder}{\operator David Kinder}{\creatim\yr2000\mo6\dy6\hr20\min47}{\revtim\yr2000\mo6\dy6\hr20\min47}
{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages28}{\nofwords2418}{\nofchars13786}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws16930}{\vern89}}\margl1797\margr1797 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale90\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\b\f1\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super K}{ Contents}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super $}{ Contents}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright 
\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ contents}}}{\b\f1 
\par }{\b\f1\fs24 Magnetic: An interpreter for Magnetic Scrolls adventures
\par }{\f1\fs24 Written by Niclas Karlsson
\par Version 2.0 (Windows release 5)
\par 
\par }{\f1 Magnetic is an interpreter for the games written between 1985 and 1991 by Magnetic Scrolls, a text adventure producer based in London, 
England. Although they only produced seven games they have acquired legendary status for text adventures of as good a quality as Infocom accompanied by exceptional graphics.
\par 
\par Magnetic is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License. See the file COPYING that is included with this program for details.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {What you need for playing
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 It is illegal to play Magnetic Scrolls games if you do not own the original packages. Their games, sadly enough, have been unavailable for years, and your only choice m
ay be downloading them from the Internet. Having said this, you should get hold of the following:
\par 
\par \tab }{\f1\uldb The story files}{\v\f1 story}{\f1\uldb 
\par }{\f1 \tab }{\f1\uldb The graphics files}{\v\f1 graphics}{\f1\uldb 
\par }{\f1 \tab }{\f1\uldb Title screens}{\v\f1 titles}{\f1\uldb 
\par }{\f1 \tab }{\f1\uldb Documentation from the original packages}{\v\f1 documentation}{\f1\uldb 
\par }{\f1 
\par \tab }{\f1\uldb Using the interpreter}{\v\f1 interpreter}{\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\widctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\tab }{\uldb History}{\v history}{\uldb 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 \tab }{\f1\uldb Credits}{\v\f1 credits}{
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\page }{\cs17\b\f1\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super K}{ Story files}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright 
\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super $}{ Story Files}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ story}}}{\b\f1 
\par The Story Files
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par The Magnetic Scrolls games as originally distributed were in a somewhat complex data format, different for most platforms, without a clear distinction between the interpreter code and the data for t
he game. The interpreter uses its own story file format, identified by the file name extension ".mag".
\par 
\par The story files can be downloaded from Stefan Meier's }{\f1\ul Magnetic Scrolls Memorial}{\v\f1 meier}{\f1 .
\par 
\par Magnetic has been successfully tested with story files created from Amstrad CPC, Acorn Archimedes, Commodore 64, MS-DOS, Spectrum and Spectrum +3 versions of the games. Programs are supplied to extract the story files from the }{\f1\uldb Commodore 64}{
\v\f1 xc64}{\f1  and }{\f1\uldb MS-DOS}{\v\f1 xdos}{\f1  versions.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par Currently the Amiga, Atari ST, Apple Macintosh and 
Sinclair QL releases of the games are not supported. This is because the games were originally written in native machine code for Motorola 68000 based systems (which all the above computers are). When porting to other systems Magnetic Scrolls implemented 
a limited subset of 68000 machine code as an emulator on the target system; it is this limited subset which the Magnetic interpreter implements.
\par 
\par Magnetic Scrolls also released versions for at least the Apple II and Atari XL. We have not been able to test t
he interpreter with these versions as we have not been able to locate any examples. If you have such a version, please contact the Magnetic development team.}{
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 \page }{\cs17\b\f1\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super K}{ Converting from C64}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright 
\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super $}{ Convert C64}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ xc64}}}{\b\f1 
\par Converting story files from the Commodore 64
\par }{\f1 
\par Story files can be created by extracting the da
ta from C64 disk images (i.e. files representing the contents of the games released for the Commodore 64). These files are identified by having a file name ending with ".d64". Disk images for "The Pawn", "The Guild of Thieves", "Corruption", "Jinxter" and
 "Fish!" can be found on the Internet at the }{\f1\ul Arnold}{\v\f1 arnold}{\f1  C64 archive.
\par 
\par To convert these files to the interpreter's own format the }{\b\f1 Xtract64}{\f1  program, which is included with this interpreter, must be used.}{\b\f1  Xtract64}{\f1  is a Win32 console program, so must be run from an MS-DOS prompt under Windows. Run }{
\b\f1 Xtract64}{\f1  without any arguments to read a help screen. The syntax is:
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }{\tab Xtract64 disk1.d64 disk2.d64 game.mag
\par }{\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 For example, for "The Pawn", the command line might be:
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\tab Xtract64 pawn1.d64 pawn2.d64 pawn.mag
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }{\page }{\cs17\b\f1\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super K}{ Converting from MS-DOS}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super $}{ Convert DOS}}#{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ xdos}}}{\b\f1 
\par Converting story files from the PC (MS-DOS)
\par }{\f1 
\par Story files can be created by extracting the data from both the original MS-DOS releases and the later "Magnetic Windows" releases of "Wonderland" and "The Magnetic Scrolls Collection, Volume 1". The latter of these
 comprised new versions of "The Guild of Thieves", "Corruption" and "Fish!".
\par 
\par To convert these files to the interpreter's own format the }{\b\f1 XtractPC}{\f1  (for the original releases) or }{\b\f1 XtractMW}{\f1  (for the "Magnetic Windows" releases) programs, which are included with this interpreter, must be used.}{\b\f1 
 XtractPC}{\f1  and }{\b\f1 XtractMW}{\f1  are Win32 console programs, so must be run from an MS-DOS prompt under Windows. Run }{\b\f1 XtractPC}{\f1  or }{\b\f1 XtractMW}{\f1  without any arguments to read a help screen.
\par 
\par The syntax for }{\b\f1 XtractPC}{\f1  is:
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\tab XtractPC game game.mag
\par }{\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 where "game" is the full path to the data files, minus any trailing numbers. For example, the data files for "The Pawn" are called "pawn1" to "pawn6". If these files are in a directory "c:\\
Games\\Magnetic\\Pawn", the command line might be:
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }{\tab XtractPC c:\\Games\\Magnetic\\Pawn\\pawn Pawn.mag
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par The syntax for }{\b\f1 XtractMW}{\f1  is:
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\tab XtractMW game.rdf game.mag
\par }{\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 where "game.rdf" is the full path to the game\rquote s main rdf file ("all.rdf" for "Wonderland"; "corr.rdf", "fish.rdf" and "guild.rdf" for the games in "Collection Vol
ume 1"). For example, for "Wonderland", the command line might be:
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }{\tab XtractMW c:\\Games\\Magnetic\\Wonder\\all.rdf Wonder.mag
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\page }{\cs17\b\f1\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super K}{ Graphics files}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright 
\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super $}{ Graphics Files}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ graphics}}}{\b\f1 
\par The Graphics Files
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 The Magnetic Scrolls adventures were as well known for the quality of their graphics as of their text. The Ma
gnetic interpreter supports graphics files (".gfx") which can be created from the Amiga releases. The graphics files can be obtained from the Internet, from either }{\f1\ul Paul David Doherty's}{\v\f1 doherty}{\f1  web page or Stefan Meier's }{\f1\ul 
Magnetic Scrolls Memorial}{\v\f1 meier}{\f1 .
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par The 
format of Magnetic's graphics files differs between the original and Magnetic Windows ("Wonderland" and "Collection Volume 1") releases, therefore a story file created from an original release cannot be used with a graphics file from a Magnetic Windows re
lease, and vice versa.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 Included with the interpreter are }{\b\f1 GfxLink}{\f1  and }{\b\f1 GfxLink2}{\f1 , tools to build graphics files from the original Amiga releases of the Magnetic Scrolls games. }{\b\f1 
GfxLink}{\f1  and }{\b\f1 GfxLink2}{\f1  (discussed below) are Win32 console programs, so must be run from an MS-DOS prompt under Windows. To use }{\b\f1 GfxLink}{\f1 
, supply as arguments the directory containing the Amiga files and the output graphics file name, e.g.
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {GfxLink C:\\UAE\\Games\\ThePawn Pawn.gfx
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 The graphics files needed for "Wonderland" and the games in "Collection Volume 1" are somewhat different from those produced by }{\b\f1 GfxLink}{\f1 ; instead }{\b\f1 GfxLink2}{\f1 
 must be used. Firstly, you need an Amiga hard-drive installation of the game, and during installation must have selected the option to expand the compacted graphics 
files. If you choose this option, two extra files ("user.rsc" and "user.rdf") are created by the installer. Then to use }{\b\f1 GfxLink2}{\f1 , supply as an argument the full path to the "user.rsc" file, e.g.
\par 
\par }\pard \s15\fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {GfxLink2 C:\\UAE\\Games\\Wonder\\user.rsc
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par If }{\b\f1 GfxLink2}{\f1  detects "Wonderland", the file "wonder.gfx" will be created; if "Collection Volume 1" is detected, the files "corrupt.gfx", "fish.gfx" and "guild.gfx" will be created.
\par \page }{\cs17\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ titles}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super $}{ Title Screens}}K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super K}{ Title screens}}}{\b\f1 
\par Title Screens}{\f1 
\par 
\par The Amiga versions of some of the games (as well as the MS-DOS and Archimedes
 versions of "Wonderland") featured colourful title screens, and some Amiga versions also featured title music. Magnetic supports these title pictures and music, the files for which can be obtained from the }{\f1\ul Magnetic Scrolls Memorial}{\v\f1 meier}
{\f1  web page. The title files should have the same name as the game file, except that the picture files must end in ".png" and the music files in ".mp3". The titles appear whenever a new game is loaded into Magnetic.
\par }{\page }{\cs17\b\f1\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super K}{ Original documentation}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super $}{ Original Documentation}}#
{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ documentation}}}{\b\f1 
\par Documentation from the Original Packages
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par To prevent software pirates from spreading their programs, Magnetic Scrolls added a password protection to most of their games. However, the }{\f1\uldb extraction}{\v\f1 story}{\f1 
 programs will offer to remove this type of protection. Despite this, most games still cannot be won without the original documentation, since it often contains vital clues. Stefan Meier's }{\f1\ul Magnetic Scrolls Memorial}{\v\f1 meier}{\f1 
 web page offers a growing amount of scanned material from the original packages. Further material is also available from the }{\f1\ul Magnetic Scrolls Gallery}{\v\f1 gallery}{\f1  and the }{\f1\ul Binary Legends}{\v\f1 binary}{\f1  web page.
\par \page }{\cs17\b\f1\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super K}{ Using the interpreter}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super $}{ Using the Interpreter}}#
{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ interpreter}}}{\b\f1 
\par Using the Interpreter
\par }{\f1 
\par As you are reading this file you probably have the Magnetic interpreter already. Its most recent release can always be found at the }{\f1\ul Interactive Fiction Archive}{\v\f1 archive}{\f1 .
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 Magnetic supp
orts input line editing and history to make typing more convenient. All the common editing keys work as you would expect. Cursor up and cursor down step up and down through the input history, respectively. Text can be pasted into the input line using the 
standard paste keys (i.e. }{\b\f1 Ctrl+v}{\f1  or }{\b\f1 Shift+Insert}{\f1 ).
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par When a Magnetic Windows game is started, graphics are not initially visible. To turn the graphics on, enter the command "graphics on" at the input prompt.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 This Windows port of the Magnetic Interpreter beh
aves as you would expect of a Windows program: to operate use either the menus or the toolbar. The behaviour of each menu item is given below, along with the equivalent toolbar symbol.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {File Menu
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-2268\li2268\keepn\widctlpar\tx-2410\tx2268\outlinelevel0\adjustright \f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {
\par \{bmc open.bmp\}Open New Game\tab Opens a file open dialog to choose a new game to be loaded. Any game currently in memory will be lost if a new game is selected. The names of the four most recently loaded games are shown just above the }{\b Exit}{
 item in this menu and can be selected directly. A new game can be loaded at any time.
\par 
\par \tab When loading the game file (e.g. }{\b Pawn.mag}{), the interpreter will also try to load a }{\uldb graphics file}{\v graphics}{ of the same name but with the extension ".gfx" (i.e. }{\b Pawn.gfx}{
 in this example). If this graphics file is found then the pictures are displayed in the main or a separate window, depending on the }{\uldb options}{\v options}{ selected.
\par 
\par \{bmc script.bmp\}Script\tab Opens a file save dialog to select a file to save the script of the current game to. The script contains all text output by the game and commands input by the user. Select this item again to turn scripting off.
\par 
\par \{bmc record.bmp\}Record\tab Opens a file save dialog to select a file to save command input to. This file will contain the text of all commands input by the user. Select this item again to turn recording off.
\par 
\par \{bmc play.bmp\}Playback\tab Opens a file open dialog to select a command input file, which will usually have been produced using the Record menu item. The game will play back all the commands in the file as if the user had typed them in.
\par 
\par Exit\tab Exits the interpreter.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {View Menu
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-2268\li2268\keepn\widctlpar\tx-2410\tx2268\outlinelevel0\adjustright \f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\b 
\par }{Toolbar\tab Toggles the tool bar on and off.
\par 
\par Status bar\tab Toggles the status bar on and off.
\par 
\par \{bmc font.bmp\}Font\tab Opens a font requester which determines the font to be used for the game text.
\par 
\par \{bmc options.bmp\}Options\tab Opens the }{\uldb options dialog}{\v options}{.
\par 
\par \{bmc scroll.bmp\}Scrollback\tab Opens the scrollback dialog, which shows all the text output by the interpreter. Using this dialog text can be copied into the clipboard.
\par }\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {Help Menu
\par }\pard\plain \s21\fi-2268\li2268\keepn\widctlpar\tx-2410\tx2268\outlinelevel0\adjustright \f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {
\par \{bmc help.bmp\}Help Topics\tab Displays this help file.
\par 
\par \{bmc about.bmp\}About Magnetic\tab Displays information on this version of the Magnetic interpreter.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 \page }{\cs17\b\f1\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super K}{ Credits}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright 
\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super $}{ Credits}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ credits}}}{\b\f1 
\par Credits
\par }{\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\widctlpar\tx3969\adjustright \f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {Magnetic interpreter:\tab Niclas Karlsson
\par \tab }{\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK mailto:nkarlsso@ra.abo.fi }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b340000006d00610069006c0074006f003a006e006b00610072006c00730073006f004000720061002e00610062006f002e00660069000000004345000016000000000000000000000000000046464900450000007440
00000000f000f5e17f000201ff000a0000000000000003000400000101000000000000000000000000000000000000000000040000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000010004d000000000000000000100800000000000000000000000000000200000000000000001e00000064010000
01000000000000300201}}}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2 nkarlsso@ra.abo.fi}}}{
\par 
\par Amiga, Dos32 and Windows front ends,\tab David Kinder
\par development of Magnetic 2.0:\tab }{\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK mailto:davidk@monis.co.uk }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b340000006d00610069006c0074006f003a00640061007600690064006b0040006d006f006e00690073002e0063006f002e0075006b00000000309d005c000000000000000000000000000000000050004d2046000020
00000000000049435200000000006f007b0001fe000000001e006f0004000000000000000000000000004755490000e40400004e0000004400000046000000370000002d0000003100000045000000000000657469000044000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000201fe0000000000006f00000000300000
00000000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2 davidk@monis.co.uk}}}{
\par 
\par DOS front end:\tab Stefan Jokisch
\par \tab }{\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK mailto:s.jokisch@avu.de }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b300000006d00610069006c0074006f003a0073002e006a006f006b00690073006300680040006100760075002e00640065000000004649008a0fa0000000000064016f0000000000040001001e006f00010000000000
00000000000000000000006f0000000000000201fe00006f00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000006401000000000000050000ff0e00000000040000
00bc0001fe00}}}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2 s.jokisch@avu.de}}}{
\par 
\par JMagnetic Java version, development of\tab Stefan Meier
\par Magnetic 2.0 and Memorial web site:\tab }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK mailto:Stefan.Meier@okay.net }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b020000001700000016000000530074006500660061006e002e004d00650069006500720040006f006b00610079002e006e00650074000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b3a0000006d00610069006c0074006f003a00530074006500660061006e002e004d0065006900
6500720040006f006b00610079002e006e00650074000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\ul\cf2 Stefan.Meier@if-legends.org}}}{
\par 
\par Development of Magnetic 2.0,\tab Paul David Doherty
\par help and testing:\tab }{\field{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK mailto:pdd@if-legends.org }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000017000000130000007000640064004000690066002d006c006500670065006e00640073002e006f00720067000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b340000006d00610069006c0074006f003a007000640064004000690066002d006c006500670065006e006400
73002e006f00720067000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2 pdd@if-legends.org}}}{
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 For comments and bug reports, our thanks go to Toine de Greef, Jacob Gunness, Kai Hesse and Miron Schmidt. Thanks to Rochus Boerner for the title screens.
\par 
\par The custom toolbar and menu code used in the Windows port is by Joerg Koenig and Brent Corkum, respectively, and was obtained from the }{\f1\ul MFC Programmer\rquote s SourceBook}{\v\f1 codeguru}{\f1  web site.
\par }\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f1 
\par Magnetic uses }{\b\f1 libpng}{\f1  (by Guy Eric Schalnat, Andreas Dilger, Glenn Randers-Pehrson and others) and }{\b\f1 zlib}{\f1  (by Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler) to decode the title pictures. The MPEG audio decoder used to play the title music is ta
ken from }{\b\f1 amp11}{\f1  by Niklas Beisert.
\par \page }{\cs17\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ meier}}}{\f1  Stefan Meier's Magnetic Scrolls Memorial is part of the IF Legends web site, which is at }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1 
 HYPERLINK http://www.if-legends.org }{\f1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000001a00000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e00690066002d006c006500670065006e00640073002e006f00720067000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b3600000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0069006600
2d006c006500670065006e00640073002e006f00720067002f00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2 http://www.if-legends.org/}}}{\page }{\cs17\super #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ arnold}}}{\f1 The Arnold C64 Archive is at
\par }{\field{\*\fldinst {\f1  HYPERLINK ftp://arnold.c64.org/pub/games/ }{\f1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000017000000200000006600740070003a002f002f00610072006e006f006c0064002e006300360034002e006f00720067002f007000750062002f00670061006d00650073002f000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b400000006600740070003a002f002f006100
72006e006f006c0064002e006300360034002e006f00720067002f007000750062002f00670061006d00650073002f0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
000000000000000000000000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2 ftp://arnold.c64.org/pub/games/}}}{\f1 
\par }{\page }{\cs17\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ doherty}}}{\f1 Paul David Doherty's web page is part of the IF Legends web site, which is at }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1 
 HYPERLINK http://www.if-legends.org }{\f1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000001a00000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e00690066002d006c006500670065006e00640073002e006f00720067000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b3600000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0069006600
2d006c006500670065006e00640073002e006f00720067002f00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2 http://www.if-legends.org/}}}{\page }{\cs17\super #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ archive}}}{\f1 The Interactive Fiction Archive is a vast archive dedicated to text adventures ("interactive fiction"), run by Volker Blasius and David Kinder. It is on the Internet at
\par }{\field{\*\fldinst {\f1  HYPERLINK ftp://ftp.gmd.de/if-archive/ }{\f1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000001d0000006600740070003a002f002f006600740070002e0067006d0064002e00640065002f00690066002d0061007200630068006900760065002f000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b3a0000006600740070003a002f002f006600740070002e00
67006d0064002e00640065002f00690066002d0061007200630068006900760065002f000000000000000064010000000000016f0000010001000000000064016f0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2 ftp://ftp.gmd.de/if-archive/}}}{\f1 
\par }{\page }{\cs17\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ codeguru}}}{\f1 The MFC Programmer\rquote s SourceBook web site is at
\par }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1  HYPERLINK http://www.codeguru.com }{\f1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000001800000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0063006f006400650067007500720075002e0063006f006d000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b3200000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0063006f0064006500
67007500720075002e0063006f006d002f00000000000102010064016f0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs18\ul\cf2 http://www.codeguru.com/}}}{
\par }{\f1 \page }{\cs17\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ gallery}}}{\f1 The Magnetic Scrolls Gallery by Rochus Boerner (now maintained by David Sinclair) is at
\par }{\field{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK http://www.webpan.com/dsinclair/ms/mscrolls.html }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000003100000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e00770065006200700061006e002e0063006f006d002f006400730069006e0063006c006100690072002f006d0073002f006d007300630072006f006c006c0073002e00680074006d006c000000
e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b6200000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e00770065006200700061006e002e0063006f006d002f006400730069006e0063006c006100690072002f006d0073002f006d007300630072006f006c006c0073002e00680074006d006c000000000000}}}{\fldrslt 
{\cs18\ul\cf2 http://www.webpan.com/dsinclair/ms/mscrolls.html}}}{
\par }{\f1 \page }{\cs17\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ binary}}}{\f1 The Binary Legends web page is at
\par }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK http://www.webpan.com/dsinclair/ms/mscrolls.html }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000003100000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e00770065006200700061006e002e0063006f006d002f006400730069006e0063006c006100690072002f006d0073002f006d007300630072006f006c006c0073002e00680074006d006c000000
e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b6200000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e00770065006200700061006e002e0063006f006d002f006400730069006e0063006c006100690072002f006d0073002f006d007300630072006f006c006c0073002e00680074006d006c000000000000}}}{\fldrslt 
{\ul\cf2 http://members.xoom.com/mscrolls/}}}{
\par }{\f1 \page }{\cs17\b\f1\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super K}{ History}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super $}{ History}}#{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ history}}}{\b\f1 
\par History
\par }{\f1 
\par }{\b\f1 Magnetic 2.0, Windows release 5
\par }{\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f3\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\sa60\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls3\adjustright {\f1 
New release 2.0 of Magnetic.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f3\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\sa60\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls3\adjustright {\f1 
Added an option to have the pictures appear in the main window.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f3\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\sa60\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls3\adjustright {\f1 
Added an option to a set a gamma correction value for the pictures.
\par }\pard \s15\sa60\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\b\f1 Magnetic 1.0, Windows release 4
\par }{\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f3\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\sa60\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls3\adjustright {\f1 
Title music (stored in MPEG Layer 3 files) is now supported.
\par }\pard \s15\sa60\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\b\f1 Magnetic 1.0, Windows release 3
\par }{\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f3\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\sa60\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls3\adjustright {\f1 
Title pictures are now supported.
\par }\pard \s15\sa60\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard \s15\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ilvl0\ls0\pnrnot0\pndec }\adjustright {\b\f1 Magnetic 1.0, Windows release 2
\par }{\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f3\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\sa60\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls3\adjustright {\f1 
Magnetic now works when started with a filename from the command line.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f3\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\sa60\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls3\adjustright {\f1 Added 
\ldblquote Office 97\rdblquote  style toolbar and menus.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f3\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\sa60\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls3\adjustright {\f1 
Added an options dialog, with options to scale pictures and set the text and background colours.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f3\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\sa60\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls3\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls3\adjustright {\f1 
Added a scrollback dialog.
\par }\pard \s15\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }{\b\f1 Magnetic 1.0, Windows release 1
\par }{\f1 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\s15 \f3\fs20\lang2057\cgrid \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \s15\fi-360\li360\sa60\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls4\pnrnot0\pnf3\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\ls4\adjustright {\f1 
First release.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\page }{\cs17\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super K}{ Options}}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {
\cs17\super $}{ Options}}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ options}}}{
\par }{\b\f1 Options Dialog
\par }{\f1 
\par The options dialog sets various interpreter options. These are:
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\fi-1985\li1985\widctlpar\tx-2410\tx1985\adjustright \f1\fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\b Show pictures:}{\tab If }{\b None}{, no pictures are displayed. If }{\b Separate Window}{, pictures are displayed in a child window. If }{\b Main Window}{
, pictures are displayed in the top half of the interpreter window. Note that graphics will only appear if an appropriate graphics file has been found.
\par }\pard \s22\fi-1985\li1985\widctlpar\tx1985\adjustright {\b 
\par Scale pictures:}{\tab This number determines the size of the displayed pictures. If the factor is greater th
an one, the pictures are scaled up; if less than one, they are scaled down. Non-integer values are allowed and valid scale factors must be in the range of 0.5 to 5.
\par }{\b 
\par Scale title pictures:}{\tab This number determines the size of title pictures, which are shown when a new game is loaded. The factor is interpreted in the same way as for pictures described above.
\par }{\b 
\par Gamma correction:}{\tab This number determines the gamma correction applied to pictures. A value of 1.0 means do nothing; values less than 1.0 will make the pic
ture darker and values greater than 1.0 will make the picture lighter. Non-integer values are allowed and the value must be in the range of 0.5 to 5.
\par }{\b 
\par Colours:\tab }{Clicking on the appropriate button opens a colour dialog to set the text, background and graphics background colours of the main interpreter window.
\par }{\b 
\par Debugging:\tab }{These are options used to aid debugging of the Magnetic interpreter.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\page }{\cs17\f1\fs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ opt_show}}}{\f1\fs16 If }{\b\f1\fs16 None}{\f1\fs16 , no pictures are displayed.

\par If }{\b\f1\fs16 Separate Window}{\f1\fs16 , pictures are displayed in a child window.
\par If }{\b\f1\fs16 Main Window}{\f1\fs16 , pictures are displayed in the top half of the interpreter window.
\par Note that graphics will only appear if an appropriate graphics file has been found.\page }{\cs17\f1\fs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ opt_scale}}}{\f1\fs16 
This number determines the size of the displayed pictures. If the factor is greater than one, the pictures are scaled up; if less than one, they are scaled down. Non-integer values are allowed and valid scale factors must be in the range of 0.5 to 5.

\par \page }{\cs17\f1\fs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ opt_text}}}{\f1\fs16 Clicking on this button opens a colour dialog to set the text colour of the main interpreter window.
\par \page }{\cs17\f1\fs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ opt_back}}}{\f1\fs16 Clicking on this button opens a colour dialog to set the background colour of the main interpreter window.
\par \page }{\cs17\f1\fs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ opt_scalet}}}{\f1\fs16 
This number determines the size of the title pictures. If the factor is greater than one, the title pictures are scaled up; if less than one, they are scaled down. Non-integer values are allowed and valid scale factors must be in the range of 0.5 to 5.

\par \page }{\cs17\f1\fs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ opt_gamma}}}{\f1\fs16 
This number determines the gamma correction applied to pictures. A value of 1.0 means do nothing; values less than 1.0 will make the picture darker and values 
greater than 1.0 will make the picture lighter. Non-integer values are allowed and the value must be in the range of 0.5 to 5.
\par \page }{\cs17\f1\fs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ opt_gfxback}}}{\f1\fs16 
Clicking on this button opens a colour dialog to set the colour used as the background for pictures. This colour is only used when }{\b\f1\fs16 Pictures }{\f1\fs16 is set to }{\b\f1\fs16 Main Window}{\f1\fs16 .
\par \page }{\cs17\f1\fs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ opt_rand}}}{\f1\fs16 Determines if the interpreter\rquote 
s random number generator is seeded from an arbitrary or fixed value, and, in the latter case, what that fixed value is. This option is only of use when debugging the interpreter.
\par \page }{\cs17\f1\fs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\cs17\super #}{ opt_animwait}}}{\f1\fs16 If this checkbox is selected, the replaying of scripts pauses to allow animations to finish.
\par }}